chore(memory): promote strong-fit forms-and-reports drafts from memory-pipeline for review (#122)
medic/cht-agent: agent-memory/domains/forms-and-reports/issues/10917-fix8226-skip-form-pages-where-all-contents-are-hidden.md

confidence: medium
entities:
  - webapp/src/js/enketo/widgets/hidden-group.js
  - webapp/src/js/enketo/widgets.js
  - webapp/tests/karma/js/enketo/widgets/hidden-group.spec.ts
concepts:
  - Enketo widget extension mechanism
  - form page navigation (pager)
  - field-list groups
  - hidden appearance
  - skipping disabled/non-relevant groups
  - widget registration
related_issues:
  - cht-core-4543
stale: false
---

## Problem

When a `field-list` group had the `hidden` appearance (or all of its contents were hidden), Enketo still rendered an empty, navigable page for that group. Hiding a section such as the `inputs` group of a person-create form left several empty pages during form navigation (issue #4543), and it was impossible to use the db-object-widget to transitively load contact data (e.g. a parent contact's name) into a hidden top-level group (issue #8226).

## Root Cause

Enketo's pager only skips pages for groups it considers non-relevant or disabled. A group with the `hidden` appearance has its contents visually hidden via CSS, but the group element itself is not marked disabled, so the pager still treats it as a real page and renders it as an empty page.

## Solution

> Added a new Enketo widget (HiddenGroup, in webapp/src/js/enketo/widgets/hidden-group.js) whose selector is `.or-group-data.or-appearance-hidden` — a data group carrying the `hidden` appearance — and which adds the `disabled` class to every group it matches, leveraging Enketo's existing behavior of skipping disabled groups during navigation. The widget is registered in webapp/src/js/enketo/widgets.js, which pulls it in by module path — `require( './widgets/hidden-group' )` — rather than by the exported `HiddenGroup` name. Review loosened that matcher, but not to "any group with the `hidden` appearance" — what was dropped is the `field-list` requirement, leaving the two classes above.

Reviewer: **suggestion (non-blocking):** "what was dropped is the `field-list` requirement, leaving the two
classes above" describes a subtraction, but the edit was a substitution. The first iteration's selector
was `.or-appearance-field-list.or-appearance-hidden`, already two classes; review swapped
`.or-appearance-field-list` for `.or-group-data`. As written, a reader infers a three-class original.
Line 69 in this same draft states it correctly.

```suggestion
Added a new Enketo widget (HiddenGroup, in webapp/src/js/enketo/widgets/hidden-group.js) whose selector is `.or-group-data.or-appearance-hidden` — a data group carrying the `hidden` appearance — and which adds the `disabled` class to every group it matches, leveraging Enketo's existing behavior of skipping disabled groups during navigation. The widget is registered in webapp/src/js/enketo/widgets.js, which pulls it in by module path — `require( './widgets/hidden-group' )` — rather than by the exported `HiddenGroup` name. Review loosened that matcher, but not to "any group with the `hidden` appearance": the `field-list` requirement was replaced by `.or-group-data`, so the selector is still two classes, which is why the Karma spec asserts a group carrying only one of them does not match.
```
